Add ingress with cert-manager article (#4)
kosyfrances/kosyfrances.github.io: _posts/2020-03-15-ingress-gce-letsencrypt.md

---
title: "GKE Ingress with Let’s Encrypt using Cert-Manager"
layout: post
date: 2020-03-15 12:05
headerImage: false
tag:
- kubernetes
- google cloud
- ingress
- letsencrypt
- cert-manager
category: blog
author: kosyanyanwu
description: Setting up GKE Ingress with Let’s Encrypt certificate using Cert-Manager on a Google Kubernetes Cluster
---
## Introduction

> Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) provides a built-in and managed Ingress controller called GKE Ingress. When you create an Ingress object, the GKE Ingress controller creates a Google Cloud HTTP(S) load balancer and configures it according to the information in the Ingress and its associated Services.

Reviewer: Add link to so that someone can easily click to navigate to the GKE platforme

Author: done

> This article describes how to do Ingress for External HTTP(S) Load Balancing, installing the cert-manager certificate provisioner and setting up a Let's Encrypt certificate. This was written based on GKE [v1.14.10-gke.17](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/release-notes-stable#february_11_2020), [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/) v0.13 and [Helm](https://helm.sh/) v3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article describes how to setup Ingress for External HTTP(S) Load Balancing, .....
```

### Prerequisites
* [A GKE Kubernetes cluster](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/creating-a-cluster)
* [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
* [Kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)

> * A global static IP added to a DNS zone you control, for example as example.your-domain.com. Regional IP addresses do not work with GKE Ingress. See the [Google Cloud docs](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/ip-addresses/reserve-static-external-ip-address) for more information on how to reserve a static external IP address.

Reviewer: How do I add the static IP to the DNS zone? If this is outside the context of your article, simply provide a link to an article that explains it.

Note that a Service exposed through an Ingress must respond to health checks from the load balancer. According to the [docs](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/ingress#health_checks), your app must either serve a response with an HTTP 200 status to GET requests on the / path, or you can configure an HTTP readiness probe, serving a response with an HTTP 200 status to GET requests on the path specified by the readiness probe.

### Create a deployment
Here is an example of a sample deployment manifest.
```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: sample-deployment
  labels:
    app: sampleApp
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: sampleApp
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: sampleApp
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: sampleContainer

>         image: sampleImage:1.0

Reviewer: You may want to use a simple nginx image for this. Readers like to see something that works. Unless "sampleImage:1.0" is a valid image name

        ports:
        - name: http
          containerPort: 8080
          protocol: TCP
        readinessProbe:
          httpGet:
            path: /healthz
            port: 8080
          initialDelaySeconds: 5
          periodSeconds: 5
```

## Create a service
Here is an example of a sample service manifest.
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: sampleApp-service
  labels:
    app: sampleApp
spec:

>   type: NodePort

Reviewer: No need making this Service a NodePort. You can simply make it a ClusterIP since it will still be made added to the Ingress.

Author: According to the [docs](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/ingress),  NodePort is the required type for an Ingress that is used to configure an HTTP(S) load balancer.

  selector:
    app: sampleApp
  ports:
    - name: http
      protocol: TCP
      port: 8080
      targetPort: 8080
```

## Install cert-manager

> cert-manager runs within your Kubernetes cluster as a series of deployment resources. It utilizes [CustomResourceDefinitions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/) to configure Certificate Authorities and request certificates.The following steps [installs cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/kubernetes/) on your Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: This is nice. I think it would be much better if you can highlight why your reader would want to choose to use Cert-Manager

Author: The `to configure Certificate Authorities and request certificates.` part can help lol
